# COVID-19_BD
An operational machine-learning approach to map climatic connectivity in predicting COVID-19 incidence in Bangladesh

The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic continues to have a mortifying impact on the health and well-being of the global population. A continued rise in the number of patients testing positive for COVID-19 has created a lot of stress on governing bodies across the globe and they are finding it difficult to tackle the situation. To help guide and improve COVID-19 case-control efforts, this study 1) assesses the spatial and temporal pattern of COVID-19 incidence 2) examines the impact of climate variables on COVID-19 transmission by using the machine learning model 3) finds the machine learning model that best fits the dataset.
	Overall, daily confirmed COVID-19 cases and climate data were poorly correlated. The outcome shows that, unlike other countries, with an increase in temperature, the confirmed COVID-19 cases increase ever so slightly. The data reveals that during the summer, COVID-19 cases increased dramatically compared to the winter season. Temperature and humidity had a higher level of impact on confirmed COVID-19 cases. Random forest and Support Vector Regression exhibited more suitability in predicting COVID-19 cases based on climate variables.
	This study, which aims to find the best machine learning model, is important as the critical first step towards developing a way to predict COVID-19 cases and a reliable early warning system for effective prevention and control strategies at household and community levels in Bangladesh.
